Client components.
So client components are the same
things that you already know.
You just have to opt into them.
So let's make a client component.
In fact,
let's just go into our components folder.
We're gonna make a few components here.
We're gonna make a to do component.
We're going to make
a to do list component.
Like that.
And there's one more.
I'm just gonna go cheat and see which one.
So I'm actually doing the same
thing that's on here.
Yeah, new to do form.
So then I need to do form.
So new to do form is a form where people
can type in and make a new to do.
So there's some interactivity there.
To-do just shows a to-do, it does
have an ability to be clicked on and
have the to-do be completed.
And the to-do list just shows to-dos.
So out of all of those, any one of those
that probably has some interactions is
probably a good candidate for
a client component.
Because if there's interactivity,
there's probably JavaScript.
And if there's JavaScript,
you can't run a server component,
cuz you need JavaScript on the front
end to handle the interactivity.
You just do the same thing
you normally do, right?
Return a div with a form,
and something like that.
You have your input, something like that.
And then you did things you always do for
a form.
You might have some state and
you got some update state thing here,
that's a used state.
And maybe it's just that.
So, you could do that.
There's nothing wrong with that.
It's the same thing you've
always done in React.
The only difference is now,
actually I'm just gonna show you.
I'm not even going to,
I'll let next.js show us.
I'm gonna take this component, I'm gonna
try to import it into the page right here.
Let's see what happens.
I'm not even gonna try to use it,
I'm just gonna import it.
I'm just gonna say new to do form.
I'm just gonna do that.
One thing you notice that it imported with
this at sign.
That's an alias that we have
set up in our tsconfig.
Add just means route.
That way we never have to do @.we
can just say from the route.
Do this.
You can set up as many aliases you want,
but here it is.
So at anything,
start from the root and match.
So that's what that's saying.
So that's just a shortcut.
So I'm gonna import that.
And then I'm going to try to run
this don't get a problem yet.
So now I'm going to try to go down here.
And we're gonna say new to do form,
like so.
Let's see if we get any.
There we go.
We got a problem.
It immediately says you're importing
a component that needs used state.
It only works in a client component but
none of its parents
are marked with used client.
So they're server components by default.
So it's basically saying like, you wanna
do some JavaScript on the front end?
You need to tell us that.
So the only way to do that is to
go to the top and say use client.
I like that, that's it.
So now that we have that,
we're good to go now.
So putting use client at the top of
a component, and then that basically
obviously went to the regular React
components that you've been used to.
You can do user fact you can do use state
you can do anything that you've normally
ever done, and is gonna work exactly
the way you think it's gonna work.
That doesn't mean this component
won't be server side rendered.
It probably still will be server
side rendered like I don't know if I
throw like,
let's see what happens if I do this.
As I say log, log of storage You can
see right now I get an error, right?
Even though it's a client component,
it's still rendered on the server, and
that's because there's a difference
between server side rendering and
a React server component.
By default, next.js is gonna try to render
everything on the server, even this.
So that doesn't mean I can go in here and
just start doing browser stuff.
I would still have to check to make sure
that if I'm in the browser or not, but
this is a client component.
So remember, service side rendering is
this component is gonna be rendered
on the server, but then there's gonna be
some JavaScript that gets downloaded.
That is the exact replica of this
component that then takes over.
But we couldn't get to that point yet
because I logged a window up here,
which broke on the server cuz
there's no window on the server.
That's server-side rendering.
A server component is like the same thing,
except for
there is no JavaScript on
the front end that takes over it.
And the entire component is executed on
the server so I can do database things.
I could come in here and
like log process or use Redis or a sync.
I couldn't do that here.
This would not work cuz it's not executed
on the server.
It's just rendered on the server.
So that's how you would do that.
You would just use client.
And
that also means you can use client
components in server components.
And vice versa,
the only thing that you can't do
is pass props between them, right?
Or, I'm sorry, you can't pass
non-serializable props between them.
So what does that mean?
Let's say I have some props here
that says like, on change, right?
It says on change prop, which means
it's probably a function, okay?
Then I go to page and I like cool.
Yeah on change, like it's passing.
Let's pass in a function here.
Like that, hello.
Okay, and then we try to
refresh this it's got a break.
Event handlers cannot be passed
to client component props.
If you need interactivity,
consider converting part of
this to a client component.
And, it literally tells you.
So, what does that actually mean?
It's saying, the reason it says that is
because you cannot serialize a function.
If you don't know what I mean by serialize
a function, this is what I mean.
So, if I go into the console, and
I do something like this, let's say I say
json stringify this object, right and
this object has a name called Moose.
And then it has an action and this action
is a function that does something, okay?
By stringify this what do you
think the JSON is gonna look like?
>> Going to blow up, right?
>> I mean, I guess it doesn't like that.
Let me let me be specific,
since it doesn't like when I do that.
Okay, yeah, it's totally gonna blow up.
Well, hold on,
I guess I'm missing a bracket here.
There we go, okay.
So what it actually did was it didn't
carry this over, this function, right?
Cuz you can't serialize logic,
at least not this way, not with stringify.
There are ways you can do it,
and some people do it,
but by default it's not
gonna get carried over.
And because you have a client
component and a server component,
that communication has to go
across the network barrier.
So it has to go through the network.
And to go through the network,
you need to be serialized.
Cuz you can't just send
code through the network.
It has to be something that is understood.
Data, in this case JSON.
But when you try to stringify a function,
yeah, it's not gonna be there.
So this is why you can't pass functions
as props cuz they can't be serialized.
There are other values that
can't be serialized as well.
Dates, you can't serialize a date,
you can't serialize recursive things,
things that are like cyclic in nature.
So an object that points to itself
somewhere, can't serialize that.
So things like that you have
restrictions around that.
So, those are the only caveats.